Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you
Mike: Are you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Doing OKay.
Mike: Up.
You know,
Mike: It's a been a yeah I've already lost track of days how long I've been in this little cell quarantine thing. But, uh, Phil buying know temperatures or anything like that.
Mike: Any, any signs or symptoms so far.
Mike: So I'm glad about that part.
Mike: Is cabin fever, for the most part, you know, but I'm done with it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is a good opportunity to take good care of yourself and having had that that affordability in the past. So now this is a time to just focus on you and take good care of yourself. I'm
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Going to get right back, get right into the bio psychosocial because Mike. I've seen clients, back to back. I
Mike: Got that. Yeah, it was.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: My 845 so I'm tired but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to get this done. So, um, let's start because I don't know your history, what brings you to break our health, BECAUSE YOU'VE BEEN IN OUR PROGRAM FOR ABOUT HOW LONG. Now is it close to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Three weeks. Right.
Mike: Up to maybe three weeks.
Mike: I think I've had three meetings total
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, so about three weeks. So three weeks ago. What made you decide to roll it out program what was going on it.
Mike: I'm just
Mike: just tired of the whole cycle of everything you know
Mike: The financial costs of it. The
Mike: The just the whole headache of all of it just really got into me i've i've i've had the idea in my head, and in my desire and wanted to
Mike: Do this. I've been talking about doing it for some period of time about, you know, but he's think that for six
Mike: Know, probably longer. It's probably been about a year that I've been talking about, actually, you know, taking the steps that I need to to get help.
Mike: I'm trying a lot of stuff on my own. I'm just like, oh, just try to taper off and try to just do this or just do that, of course, none of which really work. Um,
Mike: It would always in with the meeting lapsing on and or giving in and not starting. I'm not taking the first step was where I realized my biggest problem kind of was, um, I was unable to kind of hold myself accountable to doing me, you know,
Mike: Starting so I'm enrolling in a program or something that I really thought was
Mike: Something to hold me accountable more so and encouraged me and motivate me to continue on. Once I took that first step.
Mike: Um, I realized that was something that I personally was going to need because
Mike: trying it on my own was just not not cutting it. So I had to
Mike: That's, that's what brought me to the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We're happy to have you here.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, before joining our program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was your drug history. Like, when did you first start
Mike: Well, originally, I began
Mike: began taking
Mike: prescribed medication that's how all of this originated
Mike: Were you injured. I was injured back in
Mike: 2012 I'm
Mike: And when I finally got everything I it was a big ol it happened at work. And so it was a big old dispute with the employer I'm finally I was able to get everything lined up.
Mike: To where actually I ended up getting Medicaid and started going under Medicaid and then they were able to get everything kind of switched over at a later date.
Mike: Lawyers and and
Mike: legal avenues. However, my doctor at that point began prescribing me a medication and
Mike: That was ongoing for quite some time.
Mike: I mean, and up until real recently, maybe a month or so, a month or two before joining the program. I was still being prescribed medication.
Mike: I was being prescribed pain medication, of course, which was off.
Mike: Now, it started out with me taking my prescribed dose and I stayed on my tribe ghosts or
Mike: I'm a year and a half or so and then I had
Mike: I had it. I just my body's tolerance had built up I was I was starting to fill a lot of the same pains that I was originally feeling so I told my doctor of what was kind of going on. I mean, of course, we were trying other other avenues of medicine.
Mike: Such as getting trigger point injections. I'm doing physical therapy, we, we tried a lot of other things as well. Um, however, at that time I had mentioned to her that my medication just really wasn't doing the same as it had
Mike: Before. Um, so we we gradually continued moving it up.
Mike: At that point,
Mike: Then I got to the point where I kind of
Mike: I was taking all my medication and I still had, you know, a week or so left of my before I would get my next prescription. So at that point, it started out with.
Mike: You know me borrowing a few pills from other relatives that were injured and we're prescribing medication on friends, things like that yet later moved to me. I'm buying them off of the street, um, you know, to supplement the difference of what I was not getting from my doctor
Mike: You know, and I wouldn't have probably asked my doctor to just give me something that was going to be more adequate. But the way that the medical field has gone and has made it extremely difficult to be honest with your doctor at this point.
Mike: You know that complicated so much more because at the at the moment that you
Mike: Give the slightest inclination that you want more medication, they automatically beam you oh he's drug seeking behavior.
Mike: And that wasn't the case at the time.
Mike: Um, and so, instead of going that route, be that I had already gone in.
Mike: A higher dosage or a higher quantity
Mike: I really was was scared to even ask, you know,
Mike: And so instead of asking my doctor
Mike: I would find them where I was able to um once that was the case. A lot of the lot of the pills that I was able to find important they were stronger than what I was being prescribed
Mike: Where I was already at a tolerance of of for my medication. And so the higher medication or the higher milligram medication that I was buying or whatever was
Mike: was just, it was just, it made my color and sound much worse. You know, it just compounded the problem, um, that continued for a long duration. I mean, you know, four years or so, probably, I would say.
Mike: And
Mike: It was if I mean I couldn't even tell you the amount of money that I have lost due to this.
Mike: Is
Mike: It was, what kind of was one of the things that kind of
Mike: Got me to the point where I was wanting to just stop.
Mike: The times that I would try to do that. I would end up getting really sick.
Mike: And I would back out, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Just try a detoxing. Did you ever go to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Any type of rehab facilities or was
Mike: By our health know I had
Mike: I did a I did try to get you into a program at one point in time. It was a
Mike: an inpatient program. I was there for
Mike: I think, three or four days.
Mike: It was a week long program. I was there for three days in which I was able to abstain throughout that duration with help of
Mike: They were giving me Suboxone in the in the treatment facility. Um, we, the thing that happened at that time I had a family emergency and
Mike: I I got called like right halfway through my my treatment and was aware of the situation and had to leave the program.
Mike: To go and take care of what was taking place. Um, I had left under, you know, and
Mike: We asked, you know, prior to leaving if it was something I would be able to maybe re enroll or get back into the program time and they were like, Oh, well, we don't know. We be there was a lot of uncertainty and seeing like because
Mike: Because I left the program or whatever. So I in my head I was like, well, I'm out. I there's I'm just not going to be able to do it. Um, so I left without any after care or any medication at that time. So, it led me back to just doing what I was able to do
You know,
Mike: I'm
Mike: A boy the painful financial bear
Mike: I'm sorry, the financial bearing got really hard when I got, I went through a period of a layoff of with my job. Um, it was a period of about seven months and got behind on bills pretty heavily on was, you know, scratching everything together just to be able to cover my costs on bills.
Mike: That I wasn't no longer really able to
Mike: afford the cost of what it was costing me to buy medication off the street. Um, and so, at that time, I
Mike: I got introduced to to Aaron at that time and began using that as a supplement instead of using medication. At that point I pretty much stopped going and getting treatment from my doctor I'm be that i i was i was wasn't clean. You know, I was
Mike: I was going to end up getting cut off.
Mike: At my doctors anyway because I was taking another substance.
Mike: And so I instead
Mike: Of doing that. I just stopped going to my doctor, um, that had been the onset of of that and you know I hadn't taken. Um, I really didn't take really much pills after that it was pretty much just the other substance.
Mike: Being at. It was a lot cheaper and easier for me to find
Mike: And so that was my
Mike: My THICK OF MINE being resourceful.
Mike: And, you know, um, and it's
Mike: Unfortunate that sometimes when when you do have, you know,
Mike: The same attitude.
Mike: That you're you're addicted mind will talk you into these things and find other resources have been able to do that. And so that's basically what
Mike: Got me going on that, um, I stayed and at continue doing that for years and I mean the quantities just, you know, got higher and higher. I'm almost to the extent know where I was spending almost the same amount
Mike: That I was on pills on the other stuff, you know, and
Mike: Which
Mike: Was just crazy to me. I mean, now it's like okay this is gotten completely out of control. Of course I got back to work. I'm hand so money started coming back in. And that's when the increase kind of began I'm abusing
Mike: higher quantity of that, um, it just worked out in that the more I bought the cheaper. It was kind of
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Buy more of it.
Mike: I would, yeah, I would buy a bulk
Mike: Amount. Instead, and it would cost me less in the long run.
Mike: You know, and
Mike: That was another avenue that my addictive.
Mike: Mind pound to continue using and to be able to financially afford the, the cost
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Before that. Before the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The injury at work and the pain pills to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Experiment with any other drugs are used to smoke pot.
Mike: Before um I experimented with hot back when I was in high school. Um, I would have probably my Junior. Junior year, I would say.
Mike: I smoked for
Mike: You know quite, I will my junior year I only did it a few times my senior year I smoked more
Mike: Not to where I would have really considered myself like the habitual type of a pot smoker.
Mike: After graduation, um, I went down to New Mexico State and Las Cruces um and I began smoking more during that period of time. I'm just college friends and parties and whatnot. I know.
Mike: You know, it was more of a social kind of a thing, but it was more frequent because there were just so many more things going on, more frequently. So
Mike: That was kind of how that began on
Mike: Then I stopped for, you know, about two years, three years and then I started smoking again when I turned about 24
And
Mike: I smoked a lot more at that point in time. I mean, I didn't really drink as much. I, I would drink more socially, but I would smoke.
Mike: Instead of during most of the time. And so I would have called myself a habitual smoker. At that point, and not continued until my
Mike: Probably till I was about 36 or so but 35 or right around there about 3536 years old.
Mike: I it was
Mike: Just a common thing all day and night, man. You know, there wasn't really much time that I was
Mike: Awake that I wasn't under the influence of marijuana
Mike: This journal other
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Go ahead.
Mike: No, no, but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: throughout this journey. Did you ever see a therapist.
Mike: No, no, I never you're really the first therapist that I've ever really seen um I think I spoke with one at a, at a
Mike: Interview, I think.
Mike: For when I was getting a lot of different
Mike: Medical care.
Mike: Um, and
Mike: The reason for that was I was dealing with depression.
Mike: Being awful work, not being able to make money.
Mike: And not having money. I mean, everything was just compounded at that time.
Mike: It was a real rough time
And
Mike: After being at home for like six or seven months. I started feeling a lot of depression and feeling of like hopelessness and
Mike: You know, my, my self worth at that time was, I felt low
Mike: And so I
Mike: Did tell my doctor about it and she set up a meeting with a therapist. I think it was just a counselor or not.
Mike: But
Mike: That never really went anywhere. I kind of
Mike: Like you know i i just pushed through, um, you know, that was kind of how
Mike: I learned how to deal with things since kind of a younger age is
Mike: You know it.
Mike: You know, kind of tough it up and
Mike: Get through it.
Mike: You know, we weren't really much to go to a hospital for very many things, you know, we couldn't stop the bleeding. Then we were going to the hospital and or even with some broken okay but
Mike: Other than that, our culture was not
Mike: Going to get any kind of medical care, especially mental health.
Mike: Care.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let me ask this question, and I want to go into what you mentioned about culture because it's very significant. Um, were you ever hospitalized because you made an attempt to harm yourself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: No. Okay. Um, do you have any current thoughts to harm yourself or to harm anyone else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So,
Mike: None whatsoever.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay. Are you up to date on your flow meningitis and pneumonia vaccine.
Mike: We had pneumonia vaccine. Um, no. I, I suppose, I suppose I'm not then
Mike: Okay, I
Mike: Am I think on my flu vaccine. I believe I did get the most. The last one I think that I got.
Mike: With last season.
I guess. Yeah.
Mike: But, and then I don't know if they included meningitis or whatever other
Mike: Typical seizures, they do. I don't know if that was something included or not, I'm not really aware of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's fine. It's something that the accident bio psychosocial um
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You mentioned depression. Are you diagnosed with any other diagnosis.
Mike: Um, as far as like neck pain, things like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That mental health. They have a mental health. I'm no
Mike: No, no, actually technically I never was really
Mike: I don't know if I ever fully got diagnosed
Mike: You know what I mean, has been
Mike: clinically depressed.
Mike: So as I mentioned, I kind of
Mike: It just wasn't something
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know that I was used to
Mike: I was like,
Mike: You know, this is a waste of my time. I can you know I'm I can get through this kind of, you know, Dale and you know I felt like I wasn't as bad as some of the people that I had seen that before me.
Mike: Medical care or
Mike: Depression, I did not want to be on any other medications.
Mike: At one point it was offered to me.
Mike: To have
Mike: Benzodiazepines
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: As
Mike: As an assistant for those themes or also they had talked about possibly being able to give me
Mike: I'm anti
Mike: I guess stuff for like depression.
So like
Mike: I don't know exactly what
Mike: Type of medications. Those are what, but I knew I didn't want to be on any of those kind of medications and I was already. I was already. I mean, prior to being prescribed any of the medication. I, I never liked me. I didn't like it at all, or anything.
Mike: So it was something that really just threw my world for a loop. I totally did not expect any of the things to take place that that had and it changed my it changed my whole life in in a negative fashion for for what you know I consider you know my life partner prior to that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have a medical diagnosis night.
Mike: Which was
Mike: For my injury. Yes. Um, I had some issues in my between my see seven and c six. Um, there were, there was some damage there. Um, and in which it was causing a pinch, going all the way down to my fingers, they would go my hands would go totally non
Mike: All the time. I also had a back problem in my lower and thoracic region.
Mike: They diagnosed me with sciatica, or something like that.
Mike: And then I don't know what they called the other the other stuff. But there were there were a few a few medical diagnosis that that we're all related to a neck and back injury.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I want to go back to let you mention culture and that you know the try to stop the bleeding. And then if you could have stopped the bleeding fast food that's in the hospital to tell me about your upbringing culture family. Tell me about that.
Mike: Well, I grew up.
Mike: And I'm in a single parent household for
Mike: The beginning portion of my life. My mom met my step dad when I was about four or five years old or so. And they were together and and married
Mike: All through my
Mike: My schooling through my high school years. Anyhow, I'm a divorced after 17 years I have two younger brothers.
Mike: A lot of cousins.
Mike: The extended family.
Mike: Was very large and we were all fairly close
Mike: For the majority of my young, young life. We were very close. There was a rep that took place about
Mike: 12 years old or so on, in which it kind of divided the family, to a certain extent. So there was some parts of my family as far as aunts and uncles that
Mike: And cousins that I didn't see I'm all that often.
Mike: My aunt had an affair. I'm with a family friend, um, and
Mike: The way my grandparents, kind of, what are like it was that was like a shame will kind of thing to do. And so they really they kind of like may stop talking. They got into a big bite and they stop talking.
Mike: They didn't speak for
Mike: Like five to seven years vegan.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sweet.
Mike: Yeah, with a long
Mike: Long opinion of thing and
Mike: But throughout that time there were there were, you know, my grandparents were always there I was, I grew up really close with my grandparents, they helped do a lot of
Mike: You know, raising and and and we're always they were always there. You know, I grew up really close with them. Um, and in which they stayed I stayed close to them throughout, you know, the remainder of their lives they passed.
Mike: My grandfather passed. About five years ago actually been longer than that. It's been about seven years.
Mike: My grandmother passed. About five years ago and year almost two years ago now in May, it will be two years that my mother has passed.
Mike: She passed fairly young
Mike: She was
Mike: She had been an alcoholic and complications with her liver
Mike: She didn't die.
Mike: Of cirrhosis, but cirrhosis had already onset, um, she had
Mike: Think liver failure and some of those complications that come along with alcoholism that were mainly prevalent in in her cause. Okay.
Mike: Um, and
Mike: Yeah, that was about two years ago, pretty close to about 10 years ago.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That that had like to, I would like to address more of that dynamic of growing up with the alcoholic mother.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the RNC in our individual sessions, since I have to do the bio psychosocial and gather all the information at the
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Schedule. Yeah, I want to schedule another individual session. So we could process, this, this is me just gathering information as necessary.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I definitely want to process because this is a lot. I'm seeing connections already as to why you know
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You have been already predisposed and, you know, having this injury and then it was this almost like it was inevitable. You know, mom has addiction history there's traumatic upbringing experiences in effective communication styles you have an injury that's painful get pain medication.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That's going to smile into addiction.
Mike: Again exactly happen.
Mike: Just like that. Prior to that, I was
Mike: The only thing I was really, I would say I would have any addiction to was smoking cigarettes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um,
Mike: I started tobacco use. When I was in high school. I'm probably my sophomore year.
Mike: Was probably my freshman year and experimented with it, my sophomore year, I was
Mike: I was constantly using tobacco.
Mike: And started out with using smokeless tobacco. Um, and then I stopped the smokeless tobacco and began smoking cigarettes, but that was really the only thing I felt like I was addicted to I mean I trained
Mike: But I never to this day have ever felt the need for it. I've never woke up.
Mike: Craving it or, you know, shaking or any of the any of the typical signs of an
Mike: Alcohol problem.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What was your relationship like with your mom.
Mike: When we were close
Mike: Mum. She was a very present in my life, she began drinking when I was about
Mike: 13 or 14 years old on
Mike: It was mainly a social theme for the majority of time of up to about right about that year about my 14th birthday or so, um, then she had
Mike: She had developed epilepsy. She had a seizure.
Mike: And after she had that
Seizure
Mike: Like she never was really quite the same, like, you know, like she was like started kind of acting like younger like just some of the decision making stuff that was the norm for my mom wasn't like
Mike: quite the same, you know, where
Mike: As before, um, you know, that would wouldn't have been an everyday occurrence. I'm
Mike: Drinking and or, you know, just the responsibility of all of it, you know, um, and, um, you know, it just seemed like that's kind of when things kind of changed with her and she started drinking
Mike: Mainly drink beer for the majority of time up on to the last probably four years of her life.
Mike: At that point is when she started drinking hard liquor, she began drinking vodka at that time and
Mike: Drank that pretty much up until the day she died almost, you know,
Mike: She the last probably three, four weeks or so survive. She was in
Mike: Like a hospice type of care.
Mike: And
Mike: About the last two weeks or so or last week of her life.
Mike: her sisters moved her into their home so that she wasn't going to be able to be close to her with more family and whatnot but
Mike: She, her health was declining rapidly by that point and so
Mike: It was kind of already
Mike: Being expected or not to make it
Mike: Much longer and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That
Mike: That way.
Mike: Why the decision was made from over from the hospice care to to the home.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And about just simply which relationship like that then
Mike: We were me and my
Mike: Middle brother were very close for the majority of
Mike: Time we just were more athletic and my youngest brother. Okay, so my middle brother three years younger than me and my youngest brother is
Mike: Six years younger than me. And so the age spread was we had a friend with my youngest brother and so me and my middle brother were a bit closer on being that we were closer in age so we we played a lot of sports for, you know, the majority of our childhood.
Mike: And
Mike: We had
Mike: remained fairly close through our adulthood.
Mike: Up until
Mike: My. Let's see. I was probably about
Mike: Pretty close to about 30 years old, we
Mike: Were just, you know, different, different things kind of have been live he he got married and had stepchildren um work. You know, there was there was, you know, we just kind of grew apart. I'm in that aspect of it. And, you know, really.
Mike: Prior to my mom's passing. Um, maybe about a year prior to we kind of
Mike: Kind of just drifted apart a bit. Um, my youngest brother, um, there was a period in time when he was in high school, like the last two years of his high school. Um, he actually came to live with me. I'm in in my home where I was in Las Cruces
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um,
Mike: And so once he graduated. He actually moved and join the military and he was. It was pretty, pretty much gone out of state for the majority of time on. And so I mean we've we've talked when he is in town and whatnot but
Mike: He suffered a couple of incidents while he was at war on he was originally driving a tank for the Army in where he ran over IE be an explosive device.
Mike: And took some shrapnel.
Mike: To his back and
Mike: He stayed in unless dad, he recovered from that state.
Mike: Enlisted and then a couple years later was shot a couple of times.
Mike: And so when he was finally done with his tour.
Mike: And got back, he had a lot of PTSD on
Mike: He is also both of my brothers have also
Mike: had issues with
Mike: Will substance.
Mike: My middle aged brother or my middle brother. He had a difficult time with with pills, also, um, he had an injury, in which he got hurt. I don't know exactly how but he started taking pain medications and
Mike: He got hooked on the beam medication. And actually, that's where I learned about the medication Suboxone was from him because he got off of the pain medication and began getting on a program for for Suboxone
Mike: And that's when
Mike: You know, when I talked to him about me feeling like I was in, you know, over my head.
Mike: On you know he had mentioned you know that that medication has been something that was like a miracle drug and it really helped him significantly and
Mike: You know, told me I should look into it and whatnot and which I didn't for a long time, you know, but, um, the seed was planted in my head and I finally got to the point you know where I was ready to stop and just
Mike: Try to get
Mike: Back in order in my life.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any children.
Mike: I do, I have
Mike: Two daughters, um, both of which are living right now with their mothers. One of them is actually living out of state.
Mike: She lives in Texas. Um, and I haven't. I see her during the breaks the school breaks or during summer break, and during winter break, um, other
Mike: Than that we keep in touch through the phone. I'm pretty regularly, my youngest daughter I she lives here in state i had full custody of her up until recently.
Mike: In the past, probably, probably been about two years.
Mike: Since since my custody has
Mike: I haven't lost custody or any of that, but we we made a decision that it was best that you know, right now, until I get myself better that she be cared for.
Mike: With her grandmother and so they are a we went through a kinship guardianship.
Mike: Plan and she is currently with them.
Mike: And so that's another one of the main reasons of why I was like, Okay, it's time to get, get my get my stuff straight
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, are you currently in a relationship.
Mike: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Listen, this relationship is the spouse added as well.
Mike: Um, no.
Mike: At this time, that's, that's not
Mike: Thankfully, something I had to go with. I went through that for a period of time with somebody. I was with and so
Mike: I know that that makes
Mike: Everything a lot
More difficult
Mike: You know the temptation is just so much more in your face.
Mike: You know, um,
Mike: And so
Mike: I am actually really glad that
Mike: You're sick.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What are your hobbies. What do you like to do for fun.
Play Music
Mike: I like sports. I like the outdoors hunting, fishing.
Mike: Riding horseback.
Mike: Hanging out with friends. I like to dance.
Mike: Like I said up you know being a musician.
Mike: You know, playing music is, is, you know, one of my favorite things, you know,
Mike: The
Mike: Really the main hobbies of my adult to really
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Look at your treatment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He issues might
Mike: I'm currently. Actually, I do have a issue. I'm trying to get resolved, and it's
Mike: Not helping at this time that I'm kind of, you know, trying to get myself straight at
Mike: Wayne pretty heavy on me. Um,
And
Mike: It's
Mike: It's, it's something that I've got to constantly stop myself from going to
Mike: Just to to my addictive mind.
Issue about
Mike: I've got a
Mike: Revoked license.
Mike: And so I
Mike: got pulled over for
Mike: The registration had lapsed by
Mike: Me mean, I guess it was like a day or two. I'm that it was out of registration and so I got pulled over for that and
Mike: At that point I you know I didn't my license revoked. I did not actually realize my license was revoked. I didn't know that there was. I thought temporary suspension on it, but it was actually coming back as revoked, and it is I'm coming from a long time ago.
Mike: That I did not actually know that took place and had it never gotten fixed on, I do not actually know that I went and got my license and had my license and I didn't receive any, anything that really let me know that it was under revoked status, all of a sudden, so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When I got pulled over, I found that out.
Mike: And now I've got a upcoming court case on me fear.
Mike: In which I've got to address that and so
Mike: That's been pretty heavy on the on the ad
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Saying positive spirit that it'll work out.
Mike: I hope so.
Mike: I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: really needed to I
Mike: Mean I gotta get my license back
Mike: It's
Mike: It's, it's really imperative, even to my job that I have my driver's license and so
Mike: It's I gotta do whatever it takes.
Mike: A girlfriend.
Mike: We've been together for
Mike: About seven, eight years now.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: He pets that live in each region and
Mike: No, not right now we are they
Mike: Good her. She has she does have children who are living now on their own already um we the dog that I had
Mike: Was all already older in age and
Mike: He actually had died.
Mike: I'm about five years ago.
Mike: And so I haven't really gotten any other animals, since we're located in in in a subdivision, and there's not like a whole lot of room available for you know what I've grown up.
Mike: Knowing like pets need, you know, we always had a lot of land and so we haven't really had that. And I just, you know, don't want to introduce a path to like an enclosed type of an area, you know,
Mike: I just
Mike: You know, I was, I was close with the dog that I get out
Mike: He was a he was a pet that actually had or
Mike: Pretty significant time I had him.
Mike: Probably. Probably about 13 years old or so we had him.
Mike: Um, he was actually puppy from one of our other
Mike: For a long duration as well. His mother. Um, and, yeah, so when my grandparents passed away. I brought him with me to live with me and my own here and he just passed from old age.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, let's get into your treatment plan and see what are some goals that you want, while being in the program.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in our program to attend group every week. Make your individual sessions. If you miss more than three below your, your participation in the program is going to be compromised and there's a possibility for discharge.
Mike: Okay, I'm so sorry about that. I
Mike: I, I was. I actually had was on the phone with the virtual clinic.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: At
Mike: I think it was 430 I was like all prepped to do it and everything. And I had the computer out. I sat in bed where I usually do my session.
Mike: Um, and I was getting ready. Um, I didn't have any of the lights on yet.
Mike: Or anything like that.
Mike: I was kind of just sitting there, and all of a sudden, I was out, and I was like, I woke up at about eight o'clock, and I was like oh my god I don't believe what happened. I woke up like in a panic.
Mike: And immediately got called
Mike: Bright heart health, to try to get a message to let everybody kind of know what took place.
Yeah.
Mike: You know, I, that was, I'm so sorry about that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So in the program, we're going to work on some relapse prevention skills. So I'm thinking of that what
Mike: Guys, I mean like that's not really like anything that I had asked the doctor,
Mike: Mom, and it really hasn't come up in group or anything, but like
Mike: What happens if like somebody does get to the point
Mike: Where every laps, or they're about to
Mike: Is there, like,
Mike: Can we call somebody
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That. And that's a good question. So you're not discharge, if you
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Relapse we want you to tell us if you relax because that gives myself. The doctor the clinical team a way to figure out how to better support you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That might mean increasing accountability through individual sessions or more QA screens, we just we we help you with it because we know that relapse is a process of addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we just work on the clinical team you're part of that to figure out the best way to support you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Group will we
Mike: Just been, I've been really
Mike: concerned and worried about
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Especially been mentioning some strong cravings. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You call virtual clinic, you let me know. Hey, Jess. If you have availability can make an appointment.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you have my email address. Now you know how to reach me you have access to virtual clinic.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: They're always working around the clock. I would encourage you, virtual clinic because it's I check my email and as a time difference. You might email me while I'm sleeping or something and I would hate for you to feel that I've been to connect with you so much.
Mike: Yeah, no, I totally know or have the time differential are dealing with. And so
Mike: You know, I felt bad even
Mike: Emailing as late as I did last night because I know you've got two hours difference on us. And so I was like, oh, I hope it's like on silent, you know, in
Mike: Europe, you know,
Mike: I wanted to try to
Mike: Reply as soon as possible to let you know that you know I it was important to me as well. And I didn't want to
Mike: Make it to where the, you know, I wanted you to know that the the appointment was was of importance to me and
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It wasn't my intention to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: move on from that you showed up, you're here. I'm so we'll, we'll work on those relapse prevention skills and that looks like what we talked about it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Whereas the addictive brain versus to sober brain finding those connections in aware of thoughts, feelings, and behavior.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: every topic that I bring up is connected to better emotional well being. So, that in turn that supports your long term sobriety. Then there's a spirituality component. I'm connecting with whatever spiritual practice that you connect with
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have a spirituality connection.
Mike: Yeah, I do.
Mike: Um, I grew up.
Mike: In a pretty religious home. Um, I would say above average. We were really involved with the Christian church.
Mike: For a fairly long duration. In fact, that's kind of the rift that went and took place with the family. Um, part of that was
Mike: Was
Mike: Was he, my aunt who actually had the affair having an affair with somebody from the church. And so when that took place we kind of stopped going there and things changed in that in that aspect of it for a while.
Mike: Um, and
Mike: I
Mike: Wasn't as
Mike: Religious
Mike: For a period of time in my life.
Mike: And got back into, you know, religion, you know, right around my
Mike: Early 20s, I that's when I kind of started getting back into into the church and whatnot.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So we'll also so you tap into that spirituality component, just as an additional support an anchor will help you and identifying over time. Most what triggers relationship triggers.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I'll talk about that more when we meet next time, have an make this appointment. Now with us and we'll have it on schedule.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Um, to just go a little more in depth, and then the long term goals, it's helping you to understand how the disease model works and and ways to get you to long term sobriety.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In the event that you're discharged because you know there's not a participation, you're out of compliance plug back into the program. We always set people. There's been people that's been in and out of this program. We don't turn you away unless we really
Mike: Believe that you wouldn't get like kick out like
Mike: Permanently or not.
Mike: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. You
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Wouldn't get kicked out permanently. The only reason why we would say, Hey, Mike can't be admitted would be if we feel that telemedicine is not enough support if we feel like Mike needs to be in residential treatment.
Mike: Yeah, like if I was having
Mike: Face to relaxing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On down in
Mike: Like that I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Would say, yeah, that's when we say for his best will be in three
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or four yeah and that's when we recommend you somewhere else.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right, so, um, let me look at my calendar.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Next week, I have
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Tuesday at four o'clock available.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or Thursday at four or five o'clock available for a session.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: On
Mike: Thursday at
Mike: Five would probably be best.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To sign so sorry, not five o'clock Thursday at four or six o'clock.
Six o'clock.
On Thursday.
Mike: Yes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Do you have any questions about your treatment plan.
Mike: I do actually have one question. I don't know if it's
Mike: My
Mike: Treatment plan or not, but
Mike: I got an email.
Mike: From bright heart health virtual clinic that they had sent me a package um I have got a notorious mailman here that sticks are male in the wrong places. We have a community mailbox.
Mike: And my mail goes to the neighbors.
Mike: All the time. We've spoken with postmaster about it, and according to him, he's talked to the person and this and that. But our mail still gets brought by our neighbors sometimes
Mike: On sometimes we don't receive stuff and it's gotta get recent um I've had issues. And so I don't know if I should have received that package yet or not, but
Mike: I have yet to receive it. I don't
Know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Virtual clinic, they handle all of that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, yeah, you can
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Reach out to one and see what's going on. Other than that, that was really the only question that I
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Have, did you want to add any short term or long term goals to your treatment plan and then you mentioned getting your driver's license thing legal issues fix anything else.
Mike: Um, yeah, a painting my journeymen license for
Work.
Mike: Is another one.
Mike: That's
Mike: Made. I guess it would be like the mid to long range goal because I'm about a year and a half, two years out from that.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So it was nice meeting you and look forward to practicing some stuff looking more into what triggers could possibly be and find some chocolate connections to present situation to help you be aware of this cycle. And can I get out of it.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So have a good night. Thank you do the same. Thank you for everything.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You're welcome, guys.
Okay.